---
title: The Story So Far...
date: 2024-06-13
---
<h1>Introduction</h1>
<body>
<p>Almost five years ago I made a decision that would significantly change my life forever. I decided to go back to school and make a career change. It sounds simple. Conceptually, it is simple. But for many individuals, like me, it is a difficult decision. To let go of all the hard work and effort you've put into a career. To let go of all the years of education and study. I believe that most people directly correlate a large amount of their identity with their job. We take pride in our work, which reflexively causes us to take pride in ourselves. However, there are times when a change must be made. Sometimes this is because the work just doesn't suit us.  Sometimes this is because external circumstances force us to change. But change isn't always bad.</p>
<p>The purpose of this initial blog post is to share the story of my own career change. To share the challenges that I faced that had to be overcome. Hopefully this initial post is encouraging to those who may find themselves in a similar positions, regardless of their current field. The purpose of this blog after this initial post will be for me to share knowledge and insights into my continuous education for the benefit of others. I hope that if you're someone who is considering a career change or are in the middle of one, you will find this post encouraging.</p>
</body>
<h1>How I became a PTA</h1>
<body>
  <p>For the majority of my teenage years, my plan was to always work with computers. However during my senior year of highschool, I found a new passion for exercising. This led to me going into college at Freed-Hardeman University in 2010 in pursuit of a degree in exercise science so that I could one day become a physical therapist. Like many 18-22 year olds, I didn't really do my homework about the profession or what it took to get into a physical therapy program after completing my bachelors. When my senior year rolled around, I came to the realization that I did not have the appropriate classes that were required for most Doctor of Physical Therapy programs. My only choice was to take an incredibly difficult year of classes (which quite frankly, I would've done pretty poorly with) or find something else to do with my degree. Because of this, I made the decision to go into a physical therapist assistant (PTA) program instead. It would be two years, instead of three, and also would be significantly cheaper.</p>
<p>In 2014, I began my PTA program at Chattanooga State Community College. It was a tough two years. My fiancee (now wife) was living with her parents 10 hours away, because we didn't want to get married until we had a stable income. My school was 45 minutes away from my house. My classes started extremely early in the morning because I was commuting from CST to EST every morning. The classes were intense. There was constant tests and quizzes. Lab practicals with instant fail condition that still make me nervous to think about. Despite the difficulty, I was able to pass and find a job.</p>
</body>
<h1>Life as a PTA</h1>
<body>
  <p>Starting my first PTA job was a real eye opener. Despite the amount of education that I had just gone through, I quickly learned there was much more to learn. Luckily, I was in a great place with great people to learn from. I did everything I could to learn and improve my skillset and knowledge. There weren't many options for continuing education for PTAs, but I pursued what I could. I earned the Advance Proficiency Pathway for Orthopedics from the American Physical Therapy Association within the first 2 years that I worked as a PTA. I enjoyed the altruistic and serving nature of the job. I loved patients who truly wanted to get better that allowed me to facilitate their recovery. But the longer I worked, the more issues I started to have.</p>
  <p>Burnout is a popular topic in most professions. I'm not sure that I've ever seen an article about a profession where people don't burnout. Being a PTA was burning me out. The nature of the job was exhausting for me. I think a large part of that was probably due to my introverted nature, but the job itself was taxing. I mentioned previously that I loved exercising. I found it more difficult to exercise in the three and a half years I was a PTA than any other time in my life. I was also frustrated by the fact that my PTA license was holding me back. I like to be ambitious and always be working towards something. However, I got to the point where it felt like there was nothing to work for. The combination of having no direction and burnout made me frequently ask myself the question "Am I really going to be able to do this for another 40 years?"</p>
</body>
<h1>The Decision</h1>
<body>
  <p>In July of 2019, I was eating lunch in the breakroom at work and my boss sat down beside me. He told me some news that spiked my blood pressure and made me nauseous. He told me that changes were coming that would reduce PTA reimbursement rates for Medicare and there was a good chance that other insurances would follow suit. After some additional discussion, I came to the conclusion that my job may soon be in jeopardy. When I said earlier that we often tie our identity to our career, this is when I felt that the most. I had to make a decision. Continue to ride a ship that I wasn't enjoying riding or let go of all the work I had put in over the past 9 years.</p>
  <p>I remember around this time my wife and I had been watching the show Chuck. If you've never seen it, it's a show about a nerdy guy who gets a super computer full of government secrets in his head. I loved it and it made me miss all the fun stuff I used to do with my computer when I was in highschool. So when I thought about a career change I knew it needed to be something with computers. One of the challenges of going back to school is figuring out how to pay the bills while you do it. I knew I needed to be able to continue working while going back to school. I began researching programs and was able to find an IT program to get a bachelor's degree that was reasonably priced, only 18 months with my previous credits, and assignments were given on a weekly basis. I remember coming home from work the day I found the program and telling my wife that we needed to talk. I told her that I felt that I wanted and needed to go back to school. She was immediately supportive of my decision and we started the paperwork to get me enrolled in the August 2019 program.</p>
</body>
<h1>Back to School</h1>
<body>
  <p>Most people find the idea of going back to school to be daunting. I was the same way...until I committed to it! Once I had committed to a career change, I found myself with so much energy to face my day. Work felt easier. Finding the energy to study and work on projects was not a problem at all. Spending 9 hours a day out of the house at work, coming home, and spending several more hours studying seems like an incredibly taxing day for most. However, I found that moving in a direction that was going to lead to something positive liberated me from the typical exhaustion that I previously felt. I could easily see myself completing my 18 month program and smoothly transitioning into my first IT role. I wasn't there yet, but life was good.</p>
</body>
<h1>COVID and Network+</h1>
<body>
  <p>And then everything changed when the Corona Virus attacked. One thing I didn't mention previously was that I worked in outpatient physical therapy. The thing about outpatient physical therapy is that patients have to willingly drive to the office for their appointment. People cancel a lot. When COVID happened, almost all of our patients stopped coming. When patients stop coming, we stop making money. On March 31, 2020, I worked my last day in physical therapy.</p>
  <p>Because of the changes that my boss warned about in July 2019, we had started to build up our emergency fund just in case I was ever laid off. This was nice because it alleviated some of the stress of there being no income coming into the house, other than what the government was providing for unemployment. However, we were still losing money every month and we knew we couldn't hold out forever.</p>
  <p>During this time, the job market dried up. There were no job postings in my area for PTAs. I had only completed a third of my IT program. I had a friend refer me to a PTA job, which I was able to interview for. However, I ended up not getting it. It was at this point that I knew I needed to commit fully to IT as my next career and do something to prove I could work an entry level IT job, so I got to work.</p>
  <p>There's a lot of discussion about if certifications are important in IT/Cybersecurity. Do they really equate to skill? Should you hire someone based on a test? To me, certifications are specialized degrees. It's simply a validation that there is a certain level of competency with a skill set or body of knowledge. If you're later on in your career, you might not see this as all that important. However for those of us early in our careers, it can be a vital tool. Not just for landing a job, but also for giving us the confidence to deal with imposter syndrome.</p>
  <p>I needed to go after something that I could show to a potential employer that showed that I was capable. I began studying for Network+. While I have always been decent at working with computers, I really never understood how they worked. At this point in time, I had no idea what a IP address was. I was completely clueless. But being that I was unemployed, I was able to spend significant amounts of time studying. In June 2020, I was able to pass my Network+ certification. After passing my Network+, I started sending my resume out to every single IT job that I thought I was remotely qualified for. Like many people, I applied to probably 100 jobs and heard nothing.  Eventually, I was able to land my first job as a helpdesk coordinator and I started in September 2020.</p>
</body>
<h1>My First IT Job</h1>
<body>
  <p>I was absolutely terrified my first day of work. My job was about an hour from my home, so I had a significant drive there and back every day. I get there and meet my coworker (who I had previously spoken with during interviews). He spends the first day showing me the lay of the land and where everything is. He informed me that he was probably going to retire in the next year or so. The building was about 320,000 sqft and he and I were the only two IT people onsite (we had remote assistance with our parent company). As most people know, the first day of work can be incredibly overwhelming. But after 6 months of unemployment, I was just happy to be there and was going to do my best to prove myself.</p>
  <p>On my hour drive home, my coworker calls me. He informs me that he has a family emergency and isn't sure when he will be back. I wished him the best, but as you'd imagine, the panic started to sink in. The next day, I walked into work absolutely terrified, but I tried to remember all the tasks I was shown from the previous day. Luckily, I received support and training from our parent company and those few weeks turned out okay.</p>
  <p>There were many facets to the job. We ran cabling, managed security cameras, set up access badges, fixed Excel issues, updated computers, fixed Zebra printers (the bane of my existence), and more. People often ask if they should start in a helpdesk role and my response is "Yes!". Working helpdesk will help you learn how many businesses function. I rely on my experience from working in helpdesk daily in my current role.</p>
  <p>Over time I learned and improved my skills. Within 6 months, my coworker felt comfortable enough to retire and I continued working. I finished my IT bachelor's in March 2021. In September 2021, I was promoted to Junior Network Administrator and was able to start getting hands on experience with Active Directory.</p>
</body>
<h1>Transition to Security</h1>
<body>
  <p>The more I learned and the more I studied, the more interested I became in cybersecurity. I began studying for Security+. I would listen to Professor Messer, Simply Cyber, John Hammond, and The Cyber Mentor videos every day on my hour drive to and from work. I was doing everything I can to maximize the time I had to study. In October 2021, I was passed Security+. I immediately started studying penetration testing after that and passed the elearnsecurity Junior Penetration Tester certification 2 weeks later. After this, I began searching for a cybersecurity analyst job. After a short while, I was able to find one.</p>
</body>
<h1>Life of an Analyst</h1>
<body>
  <p>In January 2022, I began my job as a cybersecurity analyst at my current organization. I was super excited because this was my first remote job, which was awesome after more than a year of driving 2 hours daily. However, I was working third shift. I began my shift at 10:00pm and ended at 8:30am. Most people's bodies don't work well when they're awake during those hours. I found myself struggling during this time. Part of it was self-inflicted because I would transition back to a day shift sleep schedule on my days off so that I could spend time with my wife and attend church. While this wasn't ideal, I knew that I was still early in my career and everyone has to pay their dues. During this time, I continued to study and learn about the different areas within cybersecurity to see where I wanted to go next. I developed an interest in GRC.</p>
</body>
<h1>CISSP</h1>
<body>
  <p>When it comes to working in specific areas in cybersecurity, I knew that the fastest way to get from point A to B is to go after a certification that will make you stand out. So I went after the most popular "entry-level" certification that requires 5 years of experience, the CISSP. I knew that I didn't have the experience requirements, but ISC2 offers an Associate of ISC2 certification for passing the CISSP exam that would at least be proof that I passed. This was compelling enough for me to go for it. I would tell most people that if you can pass Security+, you are probably 70% there for the CISSP. The exam is more about teaching you how to think than anything. Knowing that this test was going to be a big one, I studied harder than I had ever studied in my life. Every day I was in my textbook, doing practice tests, and listening to videos. Doing every thing I could to prepare myself. I passed the exam in July 2022. I was so excited that I didn't sleep for 48 hours after. The next day I reached out to someone that worked in the GRC part of the organization and started the process of transitioning over to that team.</p>
</body>
<h1>GRC Consulting</h1>
<body>
  <p>In October 2022, I started my position as an Associate Governance, Risk, and Compliance Consultant. I began learning how to perform NIST CSF assessments and HIPAA Risk Assessments and Gap Analyses. My coworkers taught me the ropes and I did what I could to pick up everything as quickly as possible. I also sought to create solutions to improve things. In August 2023, I was promoted to GRC Consultant from Associate. I learned HITRUST and earned the CCSFP and CHQP certifications from HITRUST. I also continued my studies and earned my Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA) certification recently.</p>
</body>
<h1>So What's Next?</h1>
<body>
  <p>I consider everything that I've accomplished so far to be Phase 1 of my professional journey. Now that I have earned the "pinnacle" certifications that give me the confidence that I have a solid baseline of knowledge, my plan is to continue to expand upon that in directions that interest me. My goal is to understand cybersecurity from the policy and procedure level to the code level. My intention is to use this blog space to document and share the things that I've learned with others. I am currently teaching myself penetration testing so that I can improve my technical skills and provide better recommendations to clients when it comes to technical matters. I hope that if you have made it this far, you will continue with me as I continue to learn and progress!</p>
</body>
